Online scammers are increasingly sophisticated
in their attempts to trick unsuspecting victims.
This trickery perpetrated through email
is known as phishing.
Phishing involves sending fraudulent messages
to gain access to financial accounts or resources,
steal online credentials,
like usernames, passwords, and account numbers,
or spread malware.
While phishing has become more challenging to spot,
it gets easier if you know what you're looking for.
Let's discuss some common examples of phishing,
how to identify red flags,
and use smart security practices to keep yourself
and your information secure.
Common phishing tactics include
claiming you've won a prize.
Posing as a friend,
asking for emergency monetary assistance.
Impersonating a business or government organization
requesting that you verify information
or pretending to offer technical support.
New phishing strategies emerge all the time,
but fraudsters often use tactics like these
that have proven successful in the past.
The common thread among phishing emails
is that they appear to come from a trusted contact
like a friend, a government organization,
or a company with which you do business,
but these messages are anything but trustworthy.
So how do you know if you have a legitimate email
or a phishing attempt in your inbox?
Look for the following six red flags.
Urgent language like, "Act now",
and threats of cancellation or collection,
are phishing attempts to entice you to act quickly,
and without thinking.
Always independently verify contact information
before responding.
Legitimate businesses correspond from the company domain,
and won't share other email addresses.
If you see a strange address in the, "From field"
or extra addresses in the "To or CC fields"
it might be a scam.
Be wary of generic greetings like,
"Dear user or Dear subscriber."
People you do business with will know your name.
Be suspicious of anyone who doesn't.
Links and downloads that spread malware
are common in phishing emails.
Examine links and attachments before clicking.
Or better yet, don't click at all.
Scammers don't always take time to proof-read,
and often write messages in non-native languages.
So beware of correspondence with typos, errors,
or strange phrasing.
Finally, messages that ask for account numbers,
usernames, passwords, social security numbers,
or any other private information are red flags.
Never provide sensitive data through email.
Besides being familiar with red flags
that indicate a scam,
practice smart security habits online.
That way, if you do fall prey to phishing,
you'll have protections in place.
Stay informed about current phishing techniques,
and report phishing attempts to your technical support team
or through your local government reporting website.
Install antivirus software,
and perform routine scans to keep your system protected.
If you inadvertently download malware,
running a scan can detect,
and usually remove the threat.
Don't ignore notifications to update your browsers
and operating system.
These updates provide important patches
to address security issues,
including vulnerabilities scammers try to exploit.
Use strong, unique passwords on all your accounts,
and enable two-factor or multifactor authentication,
to make it difficult
for scammers to access your online accounts.
And remember, a healthy dose of skepticism
is a good thing online.
If your gut tells you something is off,
take time to investigate.
When cybercriminals send phishing emails,
they hope you'll act quickly without much thought.
Don't take the bait.
Instead, take time to look for red flags
and establish smart security habits
to keep your information and accounts safe.